We left off on getting pretty much
all of our commands done except for
that web command where we are doing
CRUD on our database using our CLI app.
So if you want to take some notes from
your terminal while you're in a pinch,
you can do it now.
You just run this CLI and
you're good to go.
So you don't need the note app anymore,
Evernote, Notion, none of that.
Just Use the CLI and
if it's not good, make it better.
That's the sweet thing
about being an engineer.
You can just make it better.
Just go Google NPM thing and enhance it.
Okay so the next thing I wanna
talk about is some testing.
I believe I think that's next.
Yeah, it is.
So talk about testing.
So different types of tests.
No one wants to talk about testing.
But everyone wants tests.
Everyone wished they had tests and
nobody wants to write it.
So let's talk about test.
I mean, there's basically several types
of tests that can be written and for
the most part, it really depends on
the type of app that you're making.
So the first one is unit testing, which
is one everyone probably have heard of.
If you have a written test,
it's basically taking a unit.
In this case, that could be a function,
that could be a module,
that could be anything.
One small unit of code and
testing that individually.
If I give it this input I get
back this output, right and
it has nothing to do with the app as
a whole is on an individual level.
So that is unit testing,
integration testing is like,
basically testing how
different units work together.
So I'm gonna take this flow, right, you
might have a flow of like a signup flow
and like everything that happens
on the back end happens.
It gets kicked off in this one function.
And this function calls these functions
and that calls these functions.
I'm gonna test that whole flow.
That's integration tests just like going
through to make sure I've tested all
these things.
Individually they work well, but
is it doing the right thing?
Just cuz this function called
add takes two numbers and
adds it in that test pass doesn't
mean it's working in the long run
because it might be
getting the wrong numbers.
So we're getting the wrong answers,
even though it does add
those numbers correctly.
So we got to test everything as a whole.
So we can see that.
So that's integration testing the end-to-end
testing, which is similar to integration
testing, but it's like,
literally go to the beginning of your app.
Which is probably like a user
clicking on the thing and
then going all the way back
through making a request,
going all the way through your server,
going all the way through your handler,
through your database, and
then coming back with a response.
So it's like end to end,
literally doing the same thing.
So it's not just like testing an API call
it could be testing an entire flow from
start to scratch.
I wanna test the entire Sign up flow from
someone clicking this button on the front
end till it actually signing in and
everything in between.
It's an end-to-end test.
Most end-to-end testing involves
a browser because you have to
simulate human interaction.
In end-to-end testing basically you need a browser for
it because you have to
simulate user interaction.
And clicking, events, scrolling,
anything a user can do,
you pretty much have to simulate
that on end-to-end testing.
So there's different types of tools
you can use to spin up browsers.
You might hear the term
called a headless browser.
Anybody ever heard of that before?
Headless browser is the same browser
we're looking at right now, except for
it doesn't have a UI.
So why would I use that?
Well, because the code is still gets
executed and it still gets ran,
which therefore you can test even
though you don't need to see it.
And it's just faster.
It's more memory efficient.
And it runs in other environments that
also don't have a UI like it can run in
your terminal because it's headless so
you can spin up a browser that
doesn't have a visual part to it, but
you still get to execute browser code,
which means you get to run tests on it.
So it's just a way to run
automated browser tests.
So you'll see that.
There's tons of companies whose
foundations are built on end-to-end
testing.
There's even companies that allow you to
install a Chrome extension and go and
click on the things, the flow that
the person needs to take, and
then record that, and now that's a test.
So like there's just or
you can write scripts.
There's just so many ways to go
about it these days with end-to-end testing.
Another one is kind of like API testing.
I mean, this one's very similar
to integration testing, but
it's basically just like,
making sure your API routes work.
So if you have API routes the difference
is, I guess what integration testing is
like you're testing to see
the functionality with inside of a certain
flow or it's like API testing is like
you're probably looking at functionality.
But you're also looking at like the
responses of the APIs, like the headers,
like all these things associated
with calling an API are correct.
Whereas the integration test would
probably only be testing the logic that
gets executed when you hit this API.
Or the API testing is like testing that
whole from start to finish of that API.
Not so much as like an end-to-end,
but just that API function.
I wanna make sure it responds with
the right headers, the right status code,
it handles this error and all these
things, it triggers this or whatever.
So that's API testing.
And there's probably other made up
names or names I don't know about for
testing that people do.
There's regression testing.
There's snapshot testing.
There's so
many different types of testing.
You'll probably never do all of these
at once because nobody likes doing it.
Until like that one person who's
just like, I'm gonna sit down and
write tests tries to do it and
they realize that it's just really hard.
So it's unless you work at a company whose
testing culture is like really strong,
chances are you're not gonna
have to do all these tests.
But everybody wants some
of their super beneficial.
Yes.
>> Just making a note that Kent C. Dodds
has a JavaScript testing practices and
principles course.
And then there's some more advanced
content like Steve Kinney's testing
apps with Cypress.
We also just released a enterprise
UI development course that covers
a whole range of testing in the context
of a large enterprise code base.
>> There you go.
Check out those courses if you
wanna learn more about testing.
Testing is, I mean, that can be someone's
job, it's a thing it's a big thing.
So it's like when you get it right,
it feels good.
It does, when you get it set up and you're
just like, it's so nice to have it but
man said enough, it's just like so
I get back to doing other stuff, but
it's really good.